

Annotation--
an annotation is a form of metadata that provides additional information about code
elements. Annotations do not directly affect the execution of a program, but they can
be used by the compiler, runtime environment, or other tools to generate code, perform
optimizations, or configure behavior.

-@SpringBootApplication
prominent class of multiple annotations that combines three other Spring Boot annotations,
such as @ComponentScan, @Configuration, and @EnableAutoConfiguration. It is placed in the
root package and a meta-annotation of the application.

-@Configuration
class-based annotation that defines one or more bean methods in the class. The purpose of a
configuration class is to indicate the application context, like service and other application
components.

-@PathVariable
used to measure dynamic parameters from the request URI and map them to method parameters in a controller.
The annotation helps develop RESTful web services, allowing you to manage variable parameters

-@RequestBody
indicates a method parameter that binds the HTTP request body in the controller method. The request’s
body is mapped when users send requests to the server.

-@Autowired
used to inject the dependency of one bean into another. The spring-managed object is implemented into another
object that a class needs to perform.

-@RestController
combines the functionality of @Respondbody and @Controller annotations. The annotation makes creating RESTful
endpoints that return XML, JSON, and other types of responses easier and also used to respond to plain text,
 images, or PDF documents.

-@Bean
method-level annotation widely used in Spring Boot applications. Bean annotation is a direct analog of the
XML element, which indicates that the Spring container should register a method.

-@EnableAutoConfiguration
allows the automatic configuration of your Spring Boot applications. Enable Auto Configuration annotations to
define the Spring components and configure them automatically.

-@Components
used to mark the Java class in the Spring applications. The Spring IoC container manages the component
annotations and is responsible for the lifecycle of the components, such as initializing, creating, or destroying them.

-@Repository
used to interact with different databases, such as NoSQL databases and relational databases. Also, when a Java class
 is marked with @Repository annotation, Spring Boot automatically creates and adds the required context.